Adds CLI for Microsoft 365 10.3.0 release blog post (#2023)
pnp/blog: content/cli-for-microsoft-365/cli-for-microsoft-365-v10-3/index.md

---
title: CLI for Microsoft 365 v10.3

> date: 2025-01-31T20:00:00.000Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2025-01-31T01:00:00.000Z
```
usually we release during the day so lets set the time to as early as possible

tags:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
  - Entra ID
  - SharePoint
  - SharePoint Embedded
  - SharePoint Premium
type: popular
---

🎺 Shout it from the rooftops! We've just published the first minor version in 2025 of the CLI for Microsoft 365. [CLI for Microsoft 365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365) is a cross-platform command-line tool that allows you to manage your Microsoft 365 tenant and SharePoint Framework projects. This minor release introduces 14 (!!) new commands that will enhance the quality of your Microsoft 365 experience.

> Explore the [release notes](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/notes) for a neat overview of all the exciting features and improvements. 

## What's New

The year got of to a good start with a wopping 14 new commands in this release!

### SharePoint Embedded

We've added yet another command to manage SharePoint Embedded containers. 

To activate a specific container run:

```sh
m365 spe container activate --id "b!ISJs1WRro0y0EWgkUYcktDa0mE8zSlFEqFzqRn70Zwp1CEtDEBZgQICPkRbil_5Z"
```

For more information, check the following resources:

- [m365 spe container activate](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spe/container/container-activate/)

### SharePoint

> 
> In this release we've added four new command to manage default column values for a specific document library or for a folder within that library. This is a feature of SharePoint that's been around for quite a while, and our contributors found time (and reason) to finally add it to the CLI!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this release, we've added four new commands to manage default column values for a specific document library or a folder within that library. This is a feature of SharePoint that's been around for quite a while, and our contributors found time (and reason) to finally add it to the CLI!
```

```

To get a list of the default values in a library, run:

```sh
m365 spo list defaultvalue list --webUrl https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing --listTitle "Project Documents"
```

To remove a default column value in a library, run:

```sh
m365 spo list defaultvalue remove --webUrl https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/Marketing --listTitle Logos --fieldName Company
```

To clear default column values in a library, run:

```sh
m365 spo list defaultvalue clear --webUrl https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/Marketing --listTitle Logos
```

For more information, check the following resources:

- [m365 spo list defaultvalue clear](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/list/list-defaultvalue-clear)
- [m365 spo list defaultvalue list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/list/list-defaultvalue-list)
- [m365 spo list defaultvalue remove](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/list/list-defaultvalue-remove)
- [m365 spo list defaultvalue set](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/list/list-defaultvalue-set)

### Microsoft Entra ID

> In this release we added four new commands for working with Microsoft Entra ID roles. You can now add and update custom role definitions. For working with custom role definitions you'll need to know what resources actions are available. Retrieving these resource actions, also called role permissions, can be done by using the new command for listing role permissions. And lastly we've added a new command to be able to deactivate role assignments in Priviliged Identity Management (PIM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we added four new commands for working with Microsoft Entra ID roles. You can now add and update custom role definitions. For working with custom role definitions you'll need to know what resources actions are available. Retrieving these resource actions, also called role permissions, can be done by using the new command for listing role permissions. And lastly, we've added a new command to be able to deactivate role assignments in Privileged Identity Management (PIM).
```

```

To deactivate a PIM roleassignment for the current user, run:

```sh
m365 entra pim role assignment remove --roleDefinitionName 'SharePoint Administrator'
```

For more information, check the following resources:

- [m365 entra pim role assignment remove](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/pim/pim-role-assignment-remove/)
- [m365 entra roledefinition add](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/roledefinition/roledefinition-add/)
- [m365 entra roledefinition set](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/roledefinition/roledefinition-set/)
- [m365 entra rolepermission list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/rolepermission/rolepermission-list/)

### Outlook

We've also added a new command to update outlook mailbox settings.

To update date, time format and time zone of the signed-in user, run:

```sh
m365 outlook mailbox settings set --dateFormat 'dd.MM.yyyy' --timeFormat 'H:mm' --timeZone 'Central Europe Standard Time' --language 'en-US'
```

> For more information, check the following resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information, check the following resources:
```

- [m365 outlook mailbox settings set](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/outlook/mailbox/mailbox-settings-set)

### Exchange

> In this release we've added a command that allows you to grant granular Exchange permissions to applications that need to access data in Exchange Online. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we've added a command that allows you to grant granular Exchange permissions to applications that need to access data in Exchange Online. 
```

- [Reshmee Auckloo](https://github.com/reshmee011)
- [Shantha Kumar T](https://github.com/ktskumar)

### High fives

We would like to give a big shout-out and high-fives to the amazing individuals who have shared their invaluable feedback and ideas for improving CLI for Microsoft 365. We greatly appreciate your engagement and contribution to the growth of our platform. Let's celebrate the following users (in alphabetical order) for taking the time to share their insights:

- [Saurabh Tripathi](https://github.com/Saurabh7019)
- [Stefan Bauer](https://github.com/StfBauer)
- [Tobias Maestrini](https://github.com/tmaestrini)
- [Waldek Mastykarz](https://github.com/waldekmastykarz)

## Get Started Today!

Experience the power of CLI for Microsoft 365 by getting the latest release from npm:

```bash
npm i -g @pnp/cli-microsoft365
```

Alternatively, you can access the latest release from Docker:

```bash
docker run --rm -it m365pnp/cli-microsoft365:latest
```

## Need More Information?

For additional guidance on getting started or to explore detailed information about commands, architecture, or the project itself, visit [aka.ms/cli-m365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365).

## Stay Connected!

> We value your feedback and are eager to hear from you. If you have any suggestions for improvement or want to engage with our community, you can reach out to us on [GitHub](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues), [Discord](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/discord), [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/climicrosoft365.bsky.social), or [X](https://x.com/climicrosoft365). Don't hesitate to connect with us. Your input plays a vital role in shaping the future of CLI for Microsoft 365.

Reviewer: I wonder if maybe we should drop X. 
Anyone from our team is monitoring this?

Author: Good question... let's just drop it for now...

---
title: CLI for Microsoft 365 v10.3
date: 2025-01-31T01:00:00.000Z
author: Martin Lingstuyl
githubname: martinlingstuyl
categories:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
images:
  - images/banner-cli-m365.png
tags:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
  - Entra ID
  - SharePoint
  - SharePoint Embedded
  - SharePoint Premium
type: popular
---

🎺 Shout it from the rooftops! We've just published the first minor version in 2025 of the CLI for Microsoft 365. [CLI for Microsoft 365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365) is a cross-platform command-line tool that allows you to manage your Microsoft 365 tenant and SharePoint Framework projects. This minor release introduces 14 (!!) new commands that will enhance the quality of your Microsoft 365 experience.

> Explore the [release notes](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/notes) for a neat overview of all the exciting features and improvements. 

## What's New

> The year got of to a good start with a wopping 14 new commands in this release!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The year got off to a good start with a whopping 14 new commands in this release!
```

### SharePoint Embedded

We've added yet another command to manage SharePoint Embedded containers. 

To activate a specific container run:

```sh
m365 spe container activate --id "b!ISJs1WRro0y0EWgkUYcktDa0mE8zSlFEqFzqRn70Zwp1CEtDEBZgQICPkRbil_5Z"
```

For more information, check the following resources:

- [m365 spe container activate](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spe/container/container-activate/)

### SharePoint

> In this release, we've added four new commands to manage default column values for a specific document library or a folder within that library. This is a feature of SharePoint that's been around for quite a while, and our contributors found time (and reason) to finally add it to the CLI!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this release, we've added four new commands to manage default column values for a specific document library or a folder within that library. This feature of SharePoint has been around for quite a while, and our contributors finally found time (and reason) to add it to the CLI!
```

```sh
m365 entra roledefinition add --displayName 'Application Remover' --description 'Allows to remove any Entra ID application' --allowedResourceActions 'microsoft.directory/applications/delete'
```

To update an existing role definition:

```sh
m365 entra roledefinition set --id fadbc488-151d-4431-9143-6abbffae759f --newDisplayName 'Application Remover' --description 'Allows to remove any Entra ID application' --allowedResourceActions 'microsoft.directory/applications/delete'
```

To deactivate a PIM roleassignment for the current user, run:

```sh
m365 entra pim role assignment remove --roleDefinitionName 'SharePoint Administrator'
```

For more information, check the following resources:

- [m365 entra pim role assignment remove](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/pim/pim-role-assignment-remove/)
- [m365 entra roledefinition add](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/roledefinition/roledefinition-add/)
- [m365 entra roledefinition set](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/roledefinition/roledefinition-set/)
- [m365 entra rolepermission list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/entra/rolepermission/rolepermission-list/)

### Outlook

> We've also added a new command to update outlook mailbox settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've also added a new command to update Outlook mailbox settings.
```

> To update date, time format and time zone of the signed-in user, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update the date, time format and time zone of the signed-in user, run:
```
